# Kickstarter Analysis 

## Overview of Project
The overview of this project is to help Louise figure out how other campaigns succeeded/failed based on their launch dates and funding goals.  
### Purpose
The purpose is to compare her own plays success rate to the data of others success rates so she can make adjustments to other plays she decided to do in the future.
## Analysis and Challenges

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
I performed my analysis on both charts by using data from the original kickstarter sheet. I added an extra column to the kickstarter sheet and named it "years". In this column I gathered all of the years from each project and put them into this column. Next, I created a pivot table usig the kickstarter sheet and filtered the "Parent Category" and the "Years" columns. Doing this ensures that I can filter any category or any year in the pivot table. After that I dragged "outcomes" to columns to show the successful/Failed/Canceled outcomes of the data. "Outcomes" was also dragged to values to show the numbers that fall under those categories. Lastly "Date Created Conversion" was dragged to rows to show the years that these numbers fall under, but when I dragged "" I had to discard years and quarterly from the row section so that it showed the months. After I completed my pivot table, I created a line chart that showed the data from the chart and I named that chart "Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch" and saved it in my resources file. The challenges that I faced with creating this pivot table and chart was that when I dragged the years to the rows section, I was not sure if it was supposed to be every month inside the year showing.

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
On the next sheet, I collected data based on the funding of the projects and how well they did with that funding. I made columns and titled them Goal, Number Successful, Number Failed, Number Canceled,Total Projects, Percentage Successful, Percentage Failed and Percentage Canceled. I copied the dollar amounts provided in the goals column and had to the =COUNTIFS() function to calculate the data for the next 3 columns. The function I used was =COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!F:F,"successful",Kickstarter!D:D,"<=1000",Kickstarter!R:R,"plays") for the Number Successful column, =COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!F:F,"failed",Kickstarter!D:D,"<=1000",Kickstarter!R:R,"plays") for the Number Failed column, and =COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!F:F,"canceled",Kickstarter!D:D,"<=1000",Kickstarter!R:R,"plays") for the Number Canceled column. I chaned the dollar amounts to fit each row of each column so the data would be accurate. After finishing all 3 columns, I had to get the total amounts for each column in the Total Projects column. I used the =SUM() to get the totals of each row. Next I needed to get the percentages for the successful, failed and canceled columns. To get the percentages I divided the Successful column and the total column to get the percentages for the Percentage Successful column. I did the same thing for both Failed column and canceled column, the only difference was that instead of dividing from the successful row, I divided using the failed column and the total projects, and then divided the canceled column with the total points. After getting all of my percentages, I created a line chart showing the percentages and the dollar amounts from the goals column. I saved that chart as "Outcomes_vs Goals" and added it to my resources file.
### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
The challenges that I faced with the "Outcomes based on launch date" sheet was that I was unsure of how adding in the years to the rows column affected the pivot table. Next time I will just add it and if it is right then its right and if not I can just receive feedback on how I am supposed to do it. With the Outcome Based on Goals sheet, I struggled the most with the the =COUNTIFS() function because I was setting up my formula based on how it was done in the example video and not using my own data. Once I figured it out I was doing well until the canceled column kept being 0 then I thought I did the formular wrong until I noticed that there probaly were no canceled plays. I also am not sure if I did the percentages correctly, I used the formula that was provided when I looked it up on google.
## Results

- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?
The first conclusion that I can draw is that May and June are the most successful months and the second conclusion is that the number of failed plays stayed pretty consistent with the highest number being 52 failed plays in the months of May.
- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
Based on my data, I can conclude that there were no canceled plays and the highest failed plays were in the 1000 to 4999 funding amount. Overall that your play can go either way but more research needs to be done to determine what makes a play successful/fail.
- What are some limitations of this dataset?
The limitations of this dataset was that I was restricted to only dates and funding and there are so many other factors that determine a plays success which include marketing, how popular the play is, just to name of few. Basing the sucess or failure of plays based solely on dates and funding is only a small portion to determining those rates.
- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
pA possible graph could be a bar graph or pie chart.